Add initial documentation for the helm-charts-hardened chart (#290)
spiffe/spiffe.io: content/docs/latest/spire-helm-charts-hardened-about/identifiers.md

---
title: Identifiers
short: Identifiers
description: How to configure SPIFFE IDs
kind: spire-helm-charts-hardened-about
weight: 200
aliases:
    - /docs/latest/helm-charts-hardened/identifiers
---

## Defaults

- The chart deploys [SPIRE Controller Manager](https://github.com/spiffe/spire-controller-manager) to manage SPIFFE Identifiers by Kubernetes Custom Resources.

> - The chart deploys a ClusterSPIFFEID Custom Resource that gives an identifier to all pods or the form `spiffe://{{ .TrustDomain }}/ns/{{ .PodMeta.Namespace }}/sa/{{ .PodSpec.ServiceAccountName }}`.

Author: ```suggestion
- The chart deploys a ClusterSPIFFEID Custom Resource that gives an identifier to all pods of the form `spiffe://{{ .TrustDomain }}/ns/{{ .PodMeta.Namespace }}/sa/{{ .PodSpec.ServiceAccountName }}`.
```

- For a lot of use cases you don't need to add additional identifiers.

## Custom / Additional Identifiers

In some cases you may want to customize your identifiers or add additional ones.

The chart supports managing the Custom Resources from the charts values file for even easier management. We recommend using values for customization.

While you can manage identities using the [Kubernetes Custom Resources](https://github.com/spiffe/spire-controller-manager?tab=readme-ov-file#custom-resources) directly,
we do not recommend doing that as it takes care to not misconfigure.

> ## Restricting the default SVIDs.

Reviewer: nit: remove the trailing dot

Author: Done

Some workloads only reliably support one SVID at a time. To support customization you can do either two things:

> 1. You can disable the default ClusterSVID entirely and load in individual ClusterSVIDs for each workload/namespace.

Reviewer: You mean ClusterSPIFFEId? There are several references to SVID and ClusterSVID on this page but I don't see the term being introduced.

Author: Hmm... good catch. SVID being used here is the SPIFFE/SPIRE definition, so should be assumed here to be known?

The ClusterSVID part though was intended to be ClusterSPIFFEID though. Will fix that one for sure. Let me know on the SVID part.

Author: Updated. Please have a look.

2. Restrict the namespaces the default ClusterSVID applies to, so new ClusterSVIDs can uniquely match the workload in the excluded namespaces.

### Disabling the default ClusterSVID

your-values.yaml snippet:
```yaml
spire-server:
  controllerManager:
    identities:
      clusterSPIFFEIDs:
        default:
          enabled: false
```

### Restricting the default ClusterSVID

Example: Exclude the default ClusterSPIFFEID from getting applied to the `dev` and `test` namespaces

your-values.yaml snippet:
```yaml
spire-server:
  controllerManager:
    identities:
      clusterSPIFFEIDs:
        default:
          namespaceSelector:
            matchExpressions:
            - key: "kubernetes.io/metadata.name"
              operator: NotIn
              values: [dev, test]
```

# Dynamic SVIDs

Additional ClusterSVIDs can be added to the cluster by adding additional keys / values under the `spire-server.controllerManager.identities.clusterSPIFFEIDs` dictionary.

> Example: Add a SVID that matches the workload labeled `app: frontend` in namespace `test` and add a dns entry to it named `frontend.example.com`:

Reviewer: nit:
```suggestion
Example: Add a SVID that matches the workload labeled `app: frontend` in namespace `test` and add a DNS entry to it named `frontend.example.com`:
```

your-values.yaml snippet:
```yaml
spire-server:
  controllerManager:
    identities:
      clusterSPIFFEIDs:
        test-frontend:
          namespaceSelector:
            matchExpressions:
            - key: "kubernetes.io/metadata.name"
              operator: In
              values: [test]
          podSelector:
            matchLabels:
              app: frontend
          dnsNameTemplates:
          - frontend.example.com
```

# Static SVIDs

## Regular SVIDs

Generally, loading Static SVIDS is only useful when using a workload attestor that is not the Kubernetes attestor. (non default settings)

Example: Add a SVID that matches processes running under gid `1000` on node `x` and give it a spiffeID of `spiffe://example.com/frontend` with dns name `frontend.example.com`

your-values.yaml snippet:
```yaml
spire-server:
  controllerManager:
    identities:
      clusterStaticEntries:
        frontend:
          parentID: spiffe://example.com/node/x
          spiffeID: spiffe://example.com/frontend
          selectors:
          - unix:gid:1000
          dnsNameTemplates:
          - frontend.example.com
```

## Node SVIDs

> When using a node attestor other then k8sPsat, you may need to add some node entries to the database. You can make static entries for them by using the spire server's identity

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using a node attestor other then k8sPsat, you may need to add some node entries to the database. You can make static entries for them by using the SPIRE Server's identity
```

spire-server:
  controllerManager:
    identities:
      clusterStaticEntries:
        node1:
          parentID: spiffe://example.org/spire/server
          spiffeID: spiffe://example.org/spire/agent/k8s_psat/example-cluster/e860cb09-8533-4f2e-80dc-8286d768c992
          selectors:
          - tpm:pub_hash:646789aab7a9028713b8fa5197cf6be0e935d7da048866f86224ec64c50d590c
        node2:
          parentID: spiffe://example.org/spire/server
          spiffeID: spiffe://example.org/spire/agent/k8s_psat/example-cluster/8494d54e-6ad5-4c8e-87d1-2e6b7c2315cc
          selectors:
          - tpm:pub_hash:d2f0ac3a4ad72e0f14f3cd7d6b5cab16c06dc05a6b847a03c8771d640709eadd
        node3:
          parentID: spiffe://example.org/spire/server
          spiffeID: spiffe://example.org/spire/agent/k8s_psat/example-cluster/5afebd69-7c67-4998-a953-f491c156ee35
          selectors:
          - tpm:pub_hash:ac951f972127d8176c367bba4684e57da3589d1f0e072a608d53977255503c7f
```

## Join Tokens

When using the spire-controller-manager, do not use the `-spiffeID` flag to `spire-server token generate`. It will get undone by the controller manager. To use, generate the token
then add to your-values.yaml

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```yaml
```

---
title: Identifiers
short: Identifiers
description: How to configure SPIFFE IDs
kind: spire-helm-charts-hardened-about
weight: 200
aliases:
    - /docs/latest/helm-charts-hardened/identifiers
---

## Defaults

> By default the chart deploys the SPIRE Controller Manager that enables management of SPIFFE Identifiers by Kubernetes Custom Resources.
> 
> The chart itself by default deploys a ClusterSPIFFEID Custom Resource that gives an identifier to all pods.
> 
> Out of the box, in a lot of use cases you do not need to add additional identifiers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The chart deploys [SPIRE Controller Manager](https://github.com/spiffe/spire-controller-manager) to manage SPIFFE Identifiers by Kubernetes Custom Resources.
- The chart deploys a ClusterSPIFFEID Custom Resource that gives an identifier to all pods or the form `spiffe://{{ .TrustDomain }}/ns/{{ .PodMeta.Namespace }}/sa/{{ .PodSpec.ServiceAccountName }}`.
- For a lot of use cases you don't need to add additional identifiers.
```

Author: Should we remove the 'or' in line 14 or was it intended to be 'of'?

Reviewer 2: Should be of

## Custom / Additional Identifiers

> But, in some cases you may want to customize your identifiers or add additional ones.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In some cases you may want to customize your identifiers or add additional ones.
```

While you can manage identities using the Kubernetes Custom Resources via https://github.com/spiffe/spire-controller-manager?tab=readme-ov-file#custom-resources directly
we do not recommend doing that as it takes care to not misconfigure.

> The chart supports managing the Custom Resources from the charts values file for even easier management. We recommend using that mechanism.

Reviewer 2: Suggest to lead with what is supported. Maybe not even mentioned the unsupported. manual path.

Author: Was trying to avoid the statement "you never told me that". But can remove it if you feel its better not to even bring it up.

Reviewer 2: You can keep it in. More important is to lead with what is supported.

Author: Ok. I reordered things.
